DOCAPI-6422: EN review, RU translation. Docs for adaptive index granularity and some settings (#7381)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/settings/settings.md

## merge_tree_min_bytes_for_concurrent_read {#setting-merge_tree_min_bytes_for_concurrent_read}

> If the number of bytes to read from one file of a [MergeTree*](../table_engines/mergetree.md)-engine table exceeds `merge_tree_min_bytes_for_concurrent_read`, then ClickHouse tries to concurrently read from this file on several threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the number of bytes to read from one file of a [MergeTree*](../table_engines/mergetree.md)-engine table exceeds `merge_tree_min_bytes_for_concurrent_read`, then ClickHouse tries to concurrently read from this file from several threads.
```

## merge_tree_min_bytes_for_seek {#setting-merge_tree_min_bytes_for_seek}

> If the distance between two data blocks to be read in one file is less than `merge_tree_min_bytes_for_seek` bytes, then ClickHouse doesn't seek through the file, but reads the data sequentially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the distance between two data blocks to be read in one file is less than `merge_tree_min_bytes_for_seek` bytes, then ClickHouse sequentially reads range of file that contains both blocks, thus avoiding extra seek.
```

## merge_tree_max_rows_to_use_cache {#setting-merge_tree_max_rows_to_use_cache}

> If ClickHouse reads more than `merge_tree_max_rows_to_use_cache` rows in one query, it doesn't use the cache of uncompressed blocks. The [uncompressed_cache_size](../server_settings/settings.md#server-settings-uncompressed_cache_size) server setting defines the size of the cache of uncompressed blocks.

Reviewer: * this setting is used when we know what we are going to read, but before we actually do it, so new version sounds incorrect
* second sentence should probably be moved to end of next paragraph
